##### Quality grade identification of green tea using the eigenvalues of PCA based on the E-nose signals 2009

The potential of the electronic nose to monitor Longjing tea different grade based on dry tea leaf, tea beverages and tea remains volatiles was studied. The original feature vector was obtained from the response signals of the E-nose, and was analyzed by principal component analysis (PCA). To decrease the data dimension and optimize the feature vector, the front five principal component values of the PCA were extracted as the final feature vectors by PCA. The linear discrimination analysis (LDA) and the back-propagation neural network (BPNN) were proposed to identify Longjing tea grade. The results showed that the discrimination results and testing results for the tea grade were better based on the tea beverages than those based on the tea leaf and the tea remains based on the new five feature vectors; both of the LDA and BPNN methods achieved better discrimination for the tea grades based on the tea beverages and the analysis results of the two methods were accordance.



##### Evaluation of bacterial population on chicken meats using a briefcase electronic nose 2016

A novel portable electronic nose (E-nose) based on eight metal oxide sensors was used for evaluation of chicken meat freshness and bacterial population on chicken meat stored at 4.0 °C and 30.0 °C for up to 5 days. Aerobic plate counts were employed for the total count of bacterial population in term of typical biological analysis. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) analysis of fresh and spoilage chicken meats was presented. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used for pattern recognition and classification. A model for bacterial population evaluation was built by using a back propagation neural network (BPNN) based on sensor responses from the E-nose. The PCA results clearly showed the classification of chicken meat freshness corresponding to different storage days and temperatures. The E-nose with a constructed BPNN prediction model exhibited good evaluation of bacterial population on chicken with high correlation coefficient (R2 = 0.94) and mean square error of 0.016. The results suggested that the developed E-nose system can be used as a rapid and alternative way for evaluation of bacterial population on meats and offers several advantages including fast, portable, low cost, and non-destructive measurement with high relative accuracy.



##### A Spike Time-Dependent Online Learning Algorithm Derived From Biological Olfaction 2019

We have developed a spiking neural network (SNN) algorithm for signal restoration and identification based on principles extracted from the mammalian olfactory system and broadly applicable to input from arbitrary sensor arrays. For interpretability and development purposes, we here examine the properties of its initial feedforward projection. Like the full algorithm, this feedforward component is fully spike timing-based, and utilizes online learning based on local synaptic rules such as spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). Using an intermediate metric to assess the properties of this initial projection, the feedforward network exhibits high classification performance after few-shot learning without catastrophic forgetting, and includes a *none of the above* outcome to reflect classifier confidence. We demonstrate online learning performance using a publicly available machine olfaction dataset with challenges including relatively small training sets, variable stimulus concentrations, and 3 years of sensor drift.



##### Rapid online learning and robust recall in a neuromorphic olfactory circuit 2020 

We present a neural algorithm for the rapid online learning and identification of odourant samples under noise, based on the architecture of the mammalian olfactory bulb and implemented on the Intel Loihi neuromorphic system. As with biological olfaction, the spike timing-based algorithm utilizes distributed, event-driven computations and rapid (one shot) online learning. Spike timing-dependent plasticity rules operate iteratively over sequential gamma-frequency packets to construct odour representations from the activity of chemosensor arrays mounted in a wind tunnel. Learned odourants then are reliably identified despite strong destructive interference. Noise resistance is further enhanced by neuromodulation and contextual priming. Lifelong learning capabilities are enabled by adult neurogenesis. The algorithm is applicable to any signal identification problem in which high-dimensional signals are embedded in unknown backgrounds.



##### Chemiresistive Sensor Array and Machine Learning Classification of Food

Successful identification of complex odors by sensor arrays remains a challenging problem. Herein, we report robust, category-specific multiclass-time series classification using an array of 20 carbon nanotube-based chemical sensors. We differentiate between samples of cheese, liquor, and edible oil based on their odor. In a two-stage machine-learning approach, we first obtain an optimal subset of sensors specific to each category and then validate this subset using an independent and expanded data set. We determined the optimal selectors via independent selector classification accuracy, as well as a combinatorial scan of all 4845 possible four selector combinations. We performed sample classification using two models—a *k*-nearest neighbors model and a random forest model trained on extracted features. This protocol led to high classification accuracy in the independent test sets for five cheese and five liquor samples (accuracies of 91% and 78%, respectively) and only a slightly lower (73%) accuracy on a five edible oil data set.



##### Development of a Dual MOS Electronic Nose/Camera System for Improving Fruit Ripeness Classification

Electronic nose (E-nose) systems have become popular in food and fruit quality evaluation because of their rapid and repeatable availability and robustness. In this paper, we propose an E-nose system that has potential as a non-destructive system for monitoring variation in the volatile organic compounds produced by fruit during the maturing process. In addition to the E-nose system, we also propose a camera system to monitor the peel color of fruit as another feature for identification. By incorporating E-nose and camera systems together, we propose a non-destructive solution for fruit maturity monitoring. The dual E-nose/camera system presents the best Fisher class separability measure and shows a perfect classification of the four maturity stages of a banana: Unripe, half-ripe, fully ripe, and overripe.

**Keywords:** Electronic nose (E-nose), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), fruit odor, maturity



##### Recognition of original arabicacivet coffee based on odor using electronic nose and machine learning
Many studies have used an electronic nose (E-nose) to detect several types of coffee. To the best of our knowledge, none of the studies have tried to detect odors from a mixture of several types of coffee. Therefore, this research proposes E-nose which can be used to recognize original Arabica civet coffee. The mixture of Arabica civet coffee and Robusta coffee (non-civet coffee) is used as the object of this research. Nine combinations of mixture are prepared in this study. Those combinations are referred to as classes. After collecting the data, a statistical calculation would be determined to obtain parameter statistics. Moreover, the classification method used in this study is to recognize original Arabica civet coffee and original Robusta coffee. Several classifications had been compared, namely Logistic Regression (LR), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), and K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN). The best result is the KNN method with an accuracy value of 97.7% for nine classes.



##### Identification of Fresh-Chilled and Frozen-Thawed Chicken Meat and Estimation of their Shelf Life Using an E-Nose Machine Coupled Fuzzy KNN

In this study, the capability of an electronic nose machine to identify chilled and frozen-thawed chicken meat was investigated. According to the importance of fresh chicken meat consumption in people’s daily diet, recognition of fresh chicken meat from frozen-thawed one is an essential issue. In the mentioned system, eight sensors (MOS type) were applied. The outputs of sensors were preprocessed, then features were extracted, and fuzzy K-nearest neighbors (F-KNN) algorithm was applied for classification. Chicken meats were classified in two classes (fresh and frozen-thawed). Also, each group of fresh and frozen-thawed chicken meat was classified in five classes according to their shelf life (elapsed day after slaughtering/thawing). The obtained results showed that the average amount of accuracy for fresh-chilled chicken meat classification and frozen-thawed one were 95.2 and 94.67%, respectively. Finally, the accuracy of fresh chicken meat with 95.83% demonstrated the high accuracy of it compare with frozen-thawed one. According to the results, high performance of F-KNN algorithm demonstrated that e-nose system can be applied as a rapid, accurate, and nondestructive method for online and automated identification of fresh and frozen-thawed chicken meat.

##### Electronic nose for classifying beef and pork using Naïve Bayes

Meat is one of the mainly consumed foods s by human. Hence, a certain degree of standards is required for it to be safely consumed. One of those standards includes the purity of the meat. There have been some cases of adulteration of pork in beef, possible to cause harm for the consumers. Therefore, in this research, we propose an easy to use and low-cost electronic nose system that is capable to determine whether the meat is a beef or pork. The electronic system was made using Arduino microcontroller and sensor array that consisted of eight Metal-Oxide Semiconductor gas sensors. For pattern classification, Naïve Bayes classifier preceded by min-max magnitude scaling was used to classify fresh beef and pork. The experimental result showed that the proposed system could distinguish beef and pork with 75% of classification accuracy based on k-fold cross validation

##### A  Deep Learning Model for Odor  Classification Using Deep Neural Network

The odor is an environment that surrounds us. However, to identify the odor by using the human nose in order to prove the odor is very dangerous. Therefore, the artificial intelligent (AI) system should be built based on machine learning in order to achieve more accurate results. This research adopts the Deep Neural Network (DNN) model to identify some types of odor including odorless, beer odor, whisky odor, and wine odor. Each contains 60 instances that are obtained from seven sensors of the electronic nose. The experiments are conducted, and the results are compared to the comparative machine learning methods including Multilayer Perceptron (MLP), Decision Tree and Naïve Bayes (NB). From the experimental results, it can signify that the proposed deep learning model can achieve the best average accuracy.



##### Gas Classification Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks

In this work, we propose a novel Deep Convolutional Neural Network (DCNN) tailored for gas classification. Inspired by the great success of DCNN in the field of computer vision, we designed a DCNN with up to 38 layers. In general, the proposed gas neural network, named GasNet, consists of: six convolutional blocks, each block consist of six layers; a pooling layer; and a fully-connected layer. Together, these various layers make up a powerful deep model for gas classification. Experimental results show that the proposed DCNN method is an effective technique for classifying electronic nose data. We also demonstrate that the DCNN method can provide higher classification accuracy than comparable Support Vector Machine (SVM) methods and Multiple Layer Perceptron (MLP).



##### Gas recognition method based on the deep learning model of sensor array response map

It is important to detect and recognize the unknown gases or VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) in industrial safety issues. Electronic nose is a novel and portable method to detect the VOCs with high accuracy combined with sensor array and artificial intelligence algorithm. The results indicated that the multidimensional dynamic response signals of the sensor array can be viewed as the image form. Thus, a new method coupled dynamic response map with deep learning model (DLM) was proposed to improve the accuracy of the sensor array. The error-correcting output codes (ECOC) model with support vector machine (SVM) learners was applied to discriminate different VOCs. The results showed that the model with the data from the sensor array classified the VOCs more accurately than that with just single sensor. Further, a simple DLM network was trained to classify the VOCs with the accuracy of 92 %. Then the transferred VGG-19 model was further adapted to improve the generalization property of DLM with the accuracy of 90 %. Moreover, all sensors’ responses at certain time were normalized before building the model, which enhanced the prediction accuracy to 96 % for simple DLM and 94 % for transferred VGG-19. Finally, the concentrations of different substances were predicted with SVM and DLM. The results showed that the prediction error of SVM and DLM with multidimensional response map is lower that with the data from single sensor. Therefore, it is a feasible tool to detect VOCs with just one sensor module using the response map-DLM method proposed in this research.



##### Prediction of Acidity Levels of Fresh Roasted Coffees Using E-nose and Artificial Neural Network

As for the coming automation age, development of the sense of robot including sight, smelling, hearing and touch is vital for robots to complement complex tasks of human. Recently, increasing interests in robotic chef and barista call for the development of “digital deliciousness” technology, in order for the robots to have a capability of food tasting. This work demonstrates a preliminary development of gourmet robot by using electronic nose (e-nose) technology to determine the scoring and cupping of the quality of coffees as compared to the human testers. In this study, it was mainly focused on the acidity levels of fresh roasted coffee. Array of different eight semiconductor gas sensors was used to smell the coffee's aroma. Electronic nose can clearly classify the acidity levels of different roasting degrees of the roasted coffee and has nearly the same results of scoring as obtained by using artificial neural network and the human's scoring. Thus, the e-nose has shown its capability for integration into the gourmet robot according to this study.



##### Neural networks-integrated metal oxide-based artificial olfactory system for meat spoilage identification

A custom-built metal oxide-based olfactory sensing system was used to analyze the headspace from beef strip loins (*M.* *Longissimus lumborum*) stored at 4 °C and 10 °C. Area-based features were extracted from the raw signals using various signal processing techniques. Classification models using radial basis function neural networks were developed using the extracted features and performance tested using leave-1-out cross validation method. The developed models classified the beef samples into two groups; “unspoiled” (<6.0 log10 cfu/g) and “spoiled” (⩾6.0 log10 cfu/g) based on the microbial population. Maximum total classification accuracies above 90% were obtained for the samples stored at the two temperatures. Scaling the signals did have a positive influence in improving the classification accuracies obtained. Back propagation neural network prediction model using the pooled data (containing the area scaled feature) resulted in a *R*-squared of >0.70 between predicted and actual spoilage population from the 10 °C and 4 °C stored samples.



##### An Electronic Nose System for Rapid Detection of Ketamine Smoke

Ketamine severely endangers health and dwelling quality. In Taiwan, one of the common methods of taking ketamine is by smoking ketamine cigarettes. By heating up ketamine cigarettes, it produces an odor that smells similar to burning plastic. There are no effective and convenient methods for immediately detecting and identifying the smell of ketamine cigarettes. Therefore, this research proposed to develop an electronic nose system to identify the gas of ketamine cigarettes. In this study, standard operating procedures were established for collecting ketamine gas and ketamine cigarette gas at constant flow to quantitatively collect those gas samples least affected by environmental factors. After injecting the gas samples, the variation signal of sensor array was noted. By feature extraction and dimensionality reduction algorithms, the complexity of data decreased. The classification results were also analyzed through linear regression and classification algorithms, and the classification accuracy was up to 95.92%.



##### Processing and classification of chemical data inspired by insect olfaction

The chemical sense of insects has evolved to encode and classify odorants. Thus, the neural circuits in their olfactory system are likely to implement an efficient method for coding, processing, and classifying chemical information. Here, we describe a computational method to process molecular representations and classify molecules. The three-step approach mimics neurocomputational principles observed in olfactory systems. In the first step, the original stimulus space is sampled by “virtual receptors,” which are chemotopically arranged by a self-organizing map. In the second step, the signals from the virtual receptors are decorrelated via correlation-based lateral inhibition. Finally, in the third step, olfactory scent perception is modeled by a machine learning classifier. We found that signal decorrelation during the second stage significantly increases the accuracy of odorant classification. Moreover, our results suggest that the proposed signal transform is capable of dimensionality reduction and is more robust against overdetermined representations than principal component scores. Our olfaction-inspired method was successfully applied to predicting bioactivities of pharmaceutically active compounds with high accuracy. It represents a way to efficiently connect chemical structure with biological activity space.



##### An unsupervised neuromorphic clustering algorithm,
Brains perform complex tasks using a fraction of the power that would be required to do the same on a conventional computer. New neuromorphic hardware systems are now becoming widely available that are intended to emulate the more power efficient, highly parallel operation of brains. However, to use these systems in applications, we need “neuromorphic algorithms” that can run on them. Here we develop a spiking neural network model for neuromorphic hardware that uses spike timing-dependent plasticity and lateral inhibition to perform unsupervised clustering. With this model, time-invariant, rate-coded datasets can be mapped into a feature space with a specified resolution, i.e., number of clusters, using exclusively neuromorphic hardware. We developed and tested implementations on the SpiNNaker neuromorphic system and on GPUs using the GeNN framework. We show that our neuromorphic clustering algorithm achieves results comparable to those of conventional clustering algorithms such as self-organizing maps, neural gas or *k*-means clustering. We then combine it with a previously reported supervised neuromorphic classifier network to demonstrate its practical use as a neuromorphic preprocessing module.



##### Towards biological plausibility of electronic noses: A spiking neural network based approach for tea odour classification

The paper presents a novel encoding scheme for neuronal code generation for odour recognition using an electronic nose (EN). This scheme is based on channel encoding using multiple Gaussian receptive fields superimposed over the temporal EN responses. The encoded data is further applied to a spiking neural network (SNN) for pattern classification. Two forms of SNN, a back-propagation based SpikeProp and a dynamic evolving SNN are used to learn the encoded responses. The effects of information encoding on the performance of SNNs have been investigated. Statistical tests have been performed to determine the contribution of the SNN and the encoding scheme to overall odour discrimination. The approach has been implemented in odour classification of orthodox black tea (Kangra-Himachal Pradesh Region) thereby demonstrating a biomimetic approach for EN data analysis.



##### A bioinspired neural network for data processing in an electronic nose

A novel bioinspired neural network is proposed as a replacement for traditional data processing methods in the electronic nose (e-nose) that we designed. This neural network mimics the main structures of the mammalian olfactory system. It contains olfactory sensing neurons, mitral cells, and granule cells. The proposed method can directly use the raw data collected from sensors in the e-nose without any signal preprocessing, feature selection, or reduction. The output neurons of the network can change the sensors' responses into two new time series, of which we only use the variances to perform classification. This significantly simplifies the data processing procedure in e-noses. In order to test the performance of the proposed bioinspired neural network in the e-nose, two sampling methods, three classification methods, and seven kinds of Chinese liquors were employed. The highest classification rates of the proposed method and traditional method are 100% and 93%, respectively.



##### An Outlook of Recent Advances in Chemiresistive Sensor-Based Electronic Nose Systems for Food Quality and Environmental Monitoring

An electronic nose (Enose) relies on the use of an array of partially selective chemical gas sensors for identification of various chemical compounds, including volatile organic compounds in gas mixtures. They have been proposed as a portable low-cost technology to analyse complex odours in the food industry and for environmental monitoring. Recent advances in nanofabrication, sensor and microcircuitry design, neural networks, and system integration have considerably improved the efficacy of Enose devices. Here, we highlight different types of semiconducting metal oxides as well as their sensing mechanism and integration into Enose systems, including different pattern recognition techniques employed for data analysis. We offer a critical perspective of state-of-the-art commercial and custom-made Enoses, identifying current challenges for the broader uptake and use of Enose systems in a variety of applications.



##### Detection and identification of fungal species by electronic nose technology: A systematic review

A rapid and effective identification of fungal species is essential for numerous applications, and electronic nose systems are being proposed as suitable alternatives to currently available fungi identification techniques. Hence, the present review aims to unveil all published information concerning fungi identification by electronic nose systems.

A systematic review of the literature was conducted according to the PRISMA guidelines. A total of 16 articles met the inclusion criteria and were included in the analysis. The results of the reviewed studies demonstrated that effective detection of fungi was possible through sensor-based electronic nose systems, which may actually function as a mycotoxin screening tool for several applications.

The obtained results suggest that the sensor-based electronic nose systems may not only screen different fungi genera, but also identify the associated species. This technology has already been experimented in several fields, from food industry to clinical practice.

By summarizing these results, the present review may accelerate the standardization of electronic noses in fungi detection and discrimination, allowing a faster and more efficient screening of samples.



##### Electronic nose for detection of food adulteration: a review

The food products may attract unscrupulous vendors to dilute it with inexpensive alternative food sources to achieve more profit. The risk of high value food adulteration with cheaper substitutes has reached an alarming stage in recent years. Commonly available detection methods for food adulteration are costly, time consuming and requires high degree of technical expertise. However, a rapid and suitable detection method for possible adulterant is being evolved to tackle the aforesaid issues. In recent years, electronic nose (e-nose) system is being evolved for falsification detection of food products with reliable and rapid way. E-nose has the ability to artificially perceive aroma and distinguish them. The use of chemometric analysis together with gas sensor arrays have shown to be a significant procedure for quality monitoring in food. E-nose techniques with numerous provisions are reliable and favourable for food industry in food fraud detection. In the present review, the contributions of gas sensor based e-nose system are discussed extensively with a view to ascertain the adulteration of food products.



##### Recognizing lung cancer and stages using a self-developed electronic nose system

Exhaled breath contains thousands of gaseous volatile organic compounds (VOCs) that could be used as non-invasive biomarkers of lung cancer. Breath-based lung cancer screening has attracted wide attention on account of its convenience, low cost and easy popularization. In this paper, the research of lung cancer detection and staging is conducted by the self-developed electronic nose (e-nose) system. In order to investigate the performance of the device in distinguishing lung cancer patients from healthy controls, two feature extraction methods and two different classification models were adopted. Among all the models, kernel principal component analysis (KPCA) combined with extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) achieved the best results among 235 breath samples. The accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of e-nose system were 93.59%, 95.60% and 91.09%, respectively. Meanwhile, the device could innovatively classify stages of 90 lung cancer patients (i.e., 44 stage III and 46 stage IV). Experimental results indicated that the recognition accuracy of lung cancer stages was more than 80%. Further experiments of this research also showed that the combination of sensor array and pattern recognition algorithms could identify and distinguish the expiratory characteristics of lung cancer, smoking and other respiratory diseases.



##### Validation of the rapid detection approach for enhancing the electronic nose systems performance, using different deep learning models and support vector machines

Real-time gas classification is an essential issue and challenge in applications such as food and beverage quality control, accident prevention in industrial environments, for instance. In recent years, the Deep Learning (DL) models have shown great potential to classify and forecast data in diverse problems, even in the electronic nose (E-Nose) field. In this work, a Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithm and three different DL models were used to validate the rapid detection approach (based on processing an early portion of raw signals and a rising window protocol) over diverse measurement conditions. We performed a set of experiments with five different E-Nose databases, including fifteen datasets to be used with these algorithms. Based on the obtained results, we concluded that the proposed approach has a high potential and reduces the response time for making E-nose forecasts. Because in more than 60 % of the cases, it achieved reliable estimates using only the first 30 % or fewer of measurement data (counted after the gas injection starts). The findings suggest that the rapid detection approach generates reliable forecasting models using different classification methods. Moreover, SVM seems to achieve the best accuracy and better training time.



##### Ensemble machine learning approach for electronic nose signal processing

Electronic nose (e-nose) systems have been reported to be used in many areas as rapid, low-cost, and non-invasive instruments. Especially in meat production and processing, e-nose system is a powerful tool to process volatile compounds as a unique ‘fingerprint’. The ability of the pattern recognition algorithm to analyze e-nose signals is the key to the success of the e-nose system in many applications. On the other hand, ensemble methods have been reported for favorable performances in various data sets. This research proposes an ensemble learning approach for e-nose signal processing, especially in beef quality assessment. Ensemble methods are not only used for learning algorithms but also sensor array optimization. For sensor array optimization, three filter-based feature selection algorithms (FSAs) are used to build ensemble FSA such as reliefF, chi-square, and gini index. Ensemble FSA is developed to deal with different or unstable outputs of a single FSA on homogeneous e-nose data sets in beef quality monitoring. Moreover, ensemble learning algorithms are employed to deal with multi-class classification and regression tasks. Random forest and Adaboost are used that represent bagging and boosting algorithms, respectively. The results are also compared with support vector machine and decision tree as single learners. According to the experimental results, our ensemble approach has good performance and generalization in e-nose signal processing. Optimized sensor combination based on filter-based FSA shows stable results both in classification and regression tasks. Furthermore, Adaboost as a boosting algorithm produces the best prediction even though using a smaller number of sensors.



##### A High performance electronic nose system for the recognition of myocardial infarction and coronary artery diseases

Electronic noses are devices that detect the number and level of chemicals in an odor. This is accomplished by means of chemical gas sensors in the device’s structure. The device recognizes the odors that were introduced to it via the software. When we breathe air, several gas exchanges take place in our lungs (e.g., *O*2-*CO*2 at the alveola-capillary level). Some gases in our blood are presented with our breath. The detection of these gases can provide information about our health. Nowadays, many diseases can be diagnosed with very high accuracy by using an electronic nose. Despite advances in diagnoses and treatments, cardiovascular disease is still the leading cause of mortality worldwide. Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. The ability to diagnose coronary artery disease from the breath will accelerate the diagnosis, and thus, the initiation of treatment, which may save many lives. This study, involved an investigation of whether or not diseases (e.g., myocardial infarction, stable coronary artery disease) can be diagnosed from exhaled respiratory air using an electronic nose. This involved collecting data on exhaled breath from 33 patients diagnosed with myocardial infarction that underwent a primary percutaneous coronary intervention, 22 patients with stable coronary artery disease and 26 patients without heart disease. An electronic nose containing 19 gas sensors was manufactured for this study. The respondents’ breath was collected in a sterile manner. The statistical features including mean, skewness, kurtosis and derivative variance were extracted from the breath samples. These features were classified for the entire database using the support vector machine classifier by selecting 66 % as a training set and 34 % as a test set. The breath from the myocardial infarction patients were separated from that of the healthy individuals and the stable coronary artery disease patients with a classification accuracy rate of 97.19 %. The breath from the stable coronary artery disease patients were separated from the breath of the healthy control subjects with a classification accuracy rate of 81.48 %. The results reveal that the proposed method has great potential for myocardial infarction, stable coronary artery disease and healthy subjects when the electronic nose is used to record the exhaled respiratory air of the participants.



##### Precise Detection and Quantitative Prediction of Blood Glucose Level With an Electronic Nose System

Blood glucose level is an important health indicator. Non-invasive, easy-to-use glucose detection and monitoring methods and tools are desperately needed, especially for patients with diabetes. In this work, we developed a new method to quantitively identify and analyze the blood glucose level by measuring the biomarkers in breath with an electronic nose (E-Nose) system based on a metal oxide (MOX) gas sensor array. Advanced machine-learning models have been studied and developed to precisely predict the blood glucose level based on the measurement of 41 participants for 10 days. The testing result shows that the E-Nose system and proposed analysis models identify blood glucose levels at an accuracy of 90.4% and a small average error of 0.69 mmol/L in blood glucose concentration. This study indicates that the E-Nose system enabled with machine learning is an efficient and precise method to achieve low-cost and non-invasive disease diagnosis.



##### A Hand-Held Electronic Nose System for Rapid Identification of Chinese Liquors

The aim of this study is to identify types and grades of Chinese liquors. For this, a hand-held electronic nose (e-nose) system is designed and a triangular difference-based binary coding (TDBC) recognition method is proposed. For a test sample of liquors, features extracted from five gas sensors of the e-nose are converted into binary codes (0 and 1) for each liquor category. Specifically, for each liquor category, if a feature value of a test sample is within the feature value range of all training samples, we mark it as 1, otherwise 0. Subsequently, for each liquor category, the sum of binary codes of the test sample is calculated, and the category corresponding to the maximum sum value is determined as the predicted label of the test sample. Using the e-nose-based TDBC method, average recognition accuracies of 97.5% and 99.0% for liquor-type identification and grade evaluation were achieved, which were considerably higher than those obtained using four traditional recognition methods. These results indicate that as a novel approach, the e-nose-based TDBC method allows the recognition of Chinese liquors accurately and quickly, which is of great significance for liquor detection and industrial quality assurance methods.



##### Target discrimination, concentration prediction, and status judgment of electronic nose system based on large-scale measurement and multi-task deep learning

attern recognition is the core component of the electronic nose (E-nose). Traditional machine learning algorithms highly rely on the feature data selected manually for model training and testing. A complete experiment must be performed before the data can be further processed. To realize the automatic extraction of response features and simplify the model’s training and application process, a multi-task convolutional neural network (MTL-CNN) with a dual-block knowledge-sharing structure is designed to train a model for the E-nose system. This model can simultaneously perform three different classification tasks, for the purposes of target discrimination, concentration prediction, and state judgment. Only a few consecutive seconds of response data are needed to be input into the trained model to obtain various information about the E-nose. With the utilization of an unmanned gas-sensing test system, large-scale measurements of the E-nose can be carried out automatically. A baseline tracking algorithm (BTA) is designed based on the relative changes of short-term data, reducing the impact of long-term shifts. Over thousands of gas response processes and more than 10 million sensing data have participated in the training of the deep learning model. The 5-fold cross-validation method shows that the fully trained model has an outstanding generalization performance. After the baseline is tracked automatically, the accuracy of three tasks towards 12 kinds of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) is about 95% (type recognition: 95.2%, concentration prediction: 92.1%, status judgment: 97.3%) using only 4 s of sensing data during the response status of the E-nose. Our work shows the distinct advantages of combining “big data” and “deep learning” in the gas-sensing field and further proves that the employment of MTL-CNN can significantly improve the training and application efficiency of the E-nose.



##### Improving the performance of drifted/shifted electronic nose systems by cross-domain transfer using common transfer samples

Sensor drift/shift is a challenging and high-profile issue in the field of sensors and measurements. Because of the time variability and unpredictable properties of drift/shift, traditional compensation methods are costly and laborious. Considering the distribution alignments of different domains at both the feature and decision level, a unified double-level drift/shift compensation framework is presented to address sensor drift/shift. The framework consists of cross-domain feature subspace transfer learning coupled with a cross-domain adaptation extreme learning machine (CFST-AELM), which learns a low-dimensional discriminant subspace and a robust classifier using small numbers of labeled samples selected from the target domain. In general, the unified framework has the following advantages: (1) implementing anti-drift/shift at both the feature and decision level by cross-domain transfer learning which takes full advantage of transfer samples; (2) the subspace learning is a joint distribution adaptation algorithm and can be easily realized by eigenvalue decomposition; (3) more discriminative information of the source and target datasets remain after linear mapping; and (4) there is enhancement of the generalization performance of the model by adding the prediction error of transfer samples as a constraint of extreme learning machines (ELM) classification. The results suggest that compared with several state-of-the-art strategies, the CFST-AELM framework has superior performance in terms of classification



##### A Weighted Discriminative Extreme Learning Machine Design for Lung Cancer Detection by an Electronic Nose System

This article presents a study on lung cancer detection based on electronic nose technology. The pattern recognition algorithm is extremely crucial for an electronic nose system, but the customary learning algorithms usually prefer the majority class for class imbalance learning due to the assumption of equal misclassification costs. To address this challenge, in this article, we propose a novel classification method named weighted discriminative extreme learning machine (WDELM) for lung cancer diagnosis. First, the WDELM assigns a different weight to each particular sample by using a flexible weighting strategy, which enables it to perform classification tasks with the unbalanced class distribution. Then, an alternating iterative algorithm is proposed to solve the convex objective function with a theoretical analysis presented. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed method has been evaluated on lung cancer datasets and public datasets by comparing it with conventional methods. Experimental results have confirmed that the WDELM surpasses conventional methods and is competent for lung cancer diagnosis.



##### Detection of Liver Dysfunction Using a Wearable Electronic Nose System Based on Semiconductor Metal Oxide Sensors

The purpose of this exploratory study was to determine whether liver dysfunction can be generally classified using a wearable electronic nose based on semiconductor metal oxide (MOx) gas sensors, and whether the extent of this dysfunction can be quantified. MOx gas sensors are attractive because of their simplicity, high sensitivity, low cost, and stability. A total of 30 participants were enrolled, 10 of them being healthy controls, 10 with compensated cirrhosis, and 10 with decompensated cirrhosis. We used three sensor modules with a total of nine different MOx layers to detect reducible, easily oxidizable, and highly oxidizable gases. The complex data analysis in the time and non-linear dynamics domains is based on the extraction of 10 features from the sensor time series of the extracted breathing gas measurement cycles. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for distinguishing compensated and decompensated cirrhosis patients from healthy controls was 1.00. Patients with compensated and decompensated cirrhosis could be separated with a sensitivity of 0.90 (correctly classified decompensated cirrhosis), a specificity of 1.00 (correctly classified compensated cirrhosis), and an accuracy of 0.95. Our wearable, non-invasive system provides a promising tool to detect liver dysfunctions on a functional basis. Therefore, it could provide valuable support in preoperative examinations or for initial diagnosis by the general practitioner, as it provides non-invasive, rapid, and cost-effective analysis results.



##### Detection of COPD and Lung Cancer with electronic nose using ensemble learning methods

Background and aims: The chemical gas sensor array based electronic-nose (e-nose) devices with machine learning algorithms can detect and differentiate expelled breath samples of patients with various respiratory ailments and controls. It is by the recognition of levels and variations of volatile organic compounds (VOC) in the exhaled air. Here, we aimed to differentiate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer from controls. 

Materials and methods: This work presents the details of the developed e-nose system, selection of the study subjects, exhaled breath sampling method and detection, and the data analysis algorithms. The developed device is tested in 199 participants including 93 controls, 55 COPD patients, and 51 lung cancer patients. The main advantage of the device is robustness and portability and cost-effectiveness. Results: In the training phase and model validation phase, the ensemble learning method XGBoost outperformed the other two models. In the prediction of lung cancer, XGBoost method attained a classification accuracy of 79.31%. In COPD prediction also the same method had given the better results with 76.67% accuracy. Conclusion: The e-nose system developed with TGS gas sensors was portable, low cost, and gave a rapid response. It has been demonstrated that the VOC profiles of patients with pulmonary diseases and healthy controls are different and hence the e-nose system can be used as a potential diagnostic device for patients 



##### A low-cost and efficient electronic nose system for quantification of multiple indoor air contaminants utilizing HC and PLSR

A novel quantification technique is presented for electronic nose (E-nose), which is based on a double-step strategy combined with hierarchical classifier (HC) and partial least squares regression (PLSR). With the tree structure of HC, the complexity of classifier training process can be reduced in the case of unbalanced samples. For each level of the class hierarchy, the extreme learning machine-based artificial neural network (ELM-ANN) is applied for classification. In order to improve the classification performance of ELM-ANN, the multiple time-domain features are selected as training inputs, and a novel optimization method of the number of hidden layer neurons is given. To validate the effectiveness of the presented quantification technique, an E-nose system is designed to quantify the gases including six toxic gases (hydrogen sulfide, carbon monoxide, ammonia, toluene, formaldehyde, acetone) and three kinds of binary gas mixtures. This presented hierarchical classifier has demonstrated outstanding performance for the identification of target gases, such as the macro-averaged precision for unlabeled data is improved from 80% to 92% compared with non-hierarchical classifiers. Furthermore, an excellent performance of concentration estimation is obtained utilizing PLSR, where average values of the coefficient of determination for training and test samples are equal to 0.957 and 0.927, respectively. Overall, our work demonstrates that the proposed approach is applicable in E-nose-based odor quantification.



##### Portable electronic nose system for fast gynecological-conditions diagnosis in consulting room: A case study

In this work, the analytical approach to fast diagnostics of gynecological conditions based on the screening of volatile compounds in cervical mucus using a portable electronic nose system was developed for the first time. The highly sensitive electronic nose system based on seven mass-sensitive piezo-sensors with nanostructured modifiers of electrodes was utilized for the detection of highly volatile biomolecules (amines, ketones, alcohols, aldehydes, carbonic acids) in cervical mucus samples directly in a consulting room. We were solving the task to develop a model for rapid identification of patients with gynecologic inflammation diseases according to results from gaseous sensors or a single sensor scanning of a mixture composition of volatile molecules released by mucus. Whereupon we propose the following group ranking as "conditionally healthy", "remission", and "inflammation/infection". Preliminary, by individual substances we estimated selectivity and kinetic features of sorption-desorption processes on the selected array of stabilized gaseous sensors. According to the groups of compounds the detection limit by an array of sensors is 20 ррm for ketones by acetone, 10 ppm for alcohols by ethanol, for arenas 2 ppm by toluene, 20 ppb by ammonia and for amines 5 ppb by diethylamine. For the correct interpretation of the "electronic nose" results, we used the doctor’s diagnosis, their description of the condition and the severity of the lesion, which was defined by the results of microbiological research in the laboratory. At the first stage, it was established that to ensure the reliability of solution-making during sample ranking into groups, time from the moment of biomaterial sampling to the measurement should not exceed 3–5 min. At the appointment in the doctor’s office and as part of a preventative medical check-up, there were analyzed 83 bioassays according to the developed method. To elaborate a model of gynecological status assessment, there were chosen 30 conditionally healthy patients (scheduled patient care) and the ones with deviations from the conditional norm, suggesting antibacterial treatment with various inflammation histories (active form, remission, and exacerbation). To make a decision, we utilized the full amount of data, which is achieved while measuring volatile molecules above mucus during sorption (80 sec) and spontaneous desorption (120 sec). The methods and results of experimental processing of patients’ data obtained directly in a consulting room are described below. The most informative sensors were identified applying an unsupervised model for processing the output curves in bio-sample vapours. The reduction of the number of sensors in the array to one was justified. There was proved high accuracy of mucus sample ranking by presence/ absence of gynecologic disease within mere 60 s. Sensors’ data processing was carried out using machine-learning methods without a coach but with the pseudo markup. We proposed a self-learning model for bioassay separation into three classes based on the signals from the most sensitive sensor with a classification error of no more than 10%. We conducted distribution into diagnostic groups and verification of the correct classification of new samples according to the results of microbiological analysis for microflora and key cells, according to the culture test method for infectious agents of sexually transmitted diseases (Gardnerella, Candida. alb, ureaplasmosis Ureap. Parvum, Trichomonas vaginalis). For accurate confirmation of pathogens’ presence, the polymerase chain reaction method was used. The model allows us to predict processes of remission and the presence of previous illnesses in remission, not necessarily infectious (e.g., adhesion formation). Active inflammation processes of any nature are also predicted well. Characteristics of the model for prediction of the presence of sexually transmitted infections by the signals of one sensor are sensitivity – 64%, and specificity – 86%. The capacity of an analysis based on the developed method and the model constitutes 30–35 samples per shift. The minimal lifetime of the studied sensors with bio-hydroxyapatite phase is more than 12 months. In such a case, there was neither sensor calibration nor their training on test substances required. A comparative study was conducted to validate the accuracy of using the electronic nose system versus classic cultural and polymerase chain reaction methods.



##### Design and implementation of an electronic nose system for real-time detection of marijuana

Rapid and sensitive identification of illicit drugs has been a challenge and requires new methods. This study proposes a newly developed electronic nose (e-nose) based on commercially available gas sensors to provide a nondestructive, rapid, low cost, and portable solution for in situ detection for marijuana samples. Samples of seized marijuana, pseudo-narcotic marijuana, and cigarettes were analyzed. Principal component analysis (PCA), soft independent modeling of class analogies (SIMCA), and successive projection algorithm-linear discriminant analysis (SPA-LDA) were used for exploratory analysis, classification, and the reduction of variables and classification, respectively. The proposed e-nose system achieved 100% sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for classifying the samples by SPA-LDA. This approach reduced the number of variables for classification from 355 to 10. The system further provided real-time detection from an internet-of-things (IoT) architecture. The proposed device showed decentralized, rapid, and accurate measurements and therefore may be an alternative for sniffer dogs or the current in situ screening methods. This device can further be expanded to detect other classes of illicit drugs.



##### Analysis of exhaled breath for dengue disease detection by low-cost electronic nose system

This paper presents a procedure and a set-up of an electronic nose system analyzing exhaled breath to detect the patients suffering from dengue – a mosquito-borne tropical disease. Low-power resistive gas sensors (MiCS-6814, TGS8100) were used to detect volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the exhaled breath. The end-tidal phase of patients exhaled breath was collected with a BioVOCTM breath sampler. Two strategies were assessed for breath samples measurement: either direct transfer from the BioVOCTM into the sensors test chamber, or storage in Tenax TA sorbent tubes followed by VOCs release through thermal desorption and then transfer into sensors test chamber. DC sensor resistances were recorded and processed by multivariate classifier algorithms to detect infected patients. The experimental studies were run on a group of 26 individuals (16 dengue diagnosed patients and 10 control volunteers). The detection accuracy of dengue patients was over 90%.



##### Design and Validation of a Portable Machine Learning-Based Electronic Nose

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are chemicals emitted by various groups, such as foods, bacteria, and plants. While there are specific pathways and biological features significantly related to such VOCs, detection of these is achieved mostly by human odor testing or high-end methods such as gas chromatography–mass spectrometry that can analyze the gaseous component. However, odor characterization can be quite helpful in the rapid classification of some samples in sufficient concentrations. Lower-cost metal-oxide gas sensors have the potential to allow the same type of detection with less training required. Here, we report a portable, battery-powered electronic nose system that utilizes multiple metal-oxide gas sensors and machine learning algorithms to detect and classify VOCs. An in-house circuit was designed with ten metal-oxide sensors and voltage dividers; an STM32 microcontroller was used for data acquisition with 12-bit analog-to-digital conversion. For classification of target samples, a supervised machine learning algorithm such as support vector machine (SVM) was applied to classify the VOCs based on the measurement results. The coefficient of variation (standard deviation divided by mean) of 8 of the 10 sensors stayed below 10%, indicating the excellent repeatability of these sensors. As a proof of concept, four different types of wine samples and three different oil samples were classified, and the training model reported 100% and 98% accuracy based on the confusion matrix analysis, respectively. When the trained model was challenged against new sets of data, sensitivity and specificity of 98.5% and 98.6% were achieved for the wine test and 96.3% and 93.3% for the oil test, respectively, when the SVM classifier was used. These results suggest that the metal-oxide sensors are suitable for usage in food authentication applications.





##### Prediction of Pulmonary Diseases With Electronic Nose Using SVM and XGBoost

The volatile organic compounds (VOC) present in the exhaled breath can be used as the biomarkers of certain diseases especially pulmonary diseases. A system and device are required for the diagnosis of these diseases that can be applied easily, non-invasive, produce high accuracy results, and minimal side effects as possible. This work seeks to generate biomarkers from non-invasive and accessible breath samples that facilitate diagnostic strategies. The objective of this study is to establish breath fingerprints in human exhaled breath for the timely diagnosis of lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and asthma through the use of metabolomics tools. An electronic nose (e-nose) system is developed for the analysis of exhaled breath, which was applied to detect and classify a set of exhaled breath samples from healthy people and patients with lung cancer, COPD, and asthma. Breath samples of 218 people, including 48 lung cancer patients, 52 COPD patients, 55 asthma Patients, and 63 healthy controls were evaluated. To evaluate the performance in discriminating patients from healthy controls, eight different machine learning models were designed. The KPCA-XGBoost model attained good results with accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of 91.74%, 90.57%, and 92.65% respectively for lung cancer prediction; 89.84%, 88.14%, and 91.30% respectively for COPD prediction, and 70.66%, 68.75%, and 72.41% respectively for asthma prediction.





##### Classification and Identification of Essential Oils from Herbs and Fruits Based on a MOS Electronic-Nose Technology

The frequent occurrence of adulterated or counterfeit plant products sold in worldwide commercial markets has created the necessity to validate the authenticity of natural plant-derived palatable products, based on product-label composition, to certify pricing values and for regulatory quality control (QC). The necessity to confirm product authenticity before marketing has required the need for rapid-sensing, electronic devices capable of quickly evaluating plant product quality by easily measurable volatile (aroma) emissions. An experimental MAU-9 electronic nose (e-nose) system, containing a sensor array with 9 metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) gas sensors, was developed with capabilities to quickly identify and classify volatile essential oils derived from fruit and herbal edible-plant sources. The e-nose instrument was tested for efficacy to discriminate between different volatile essential oils present in gaseous emissions from purified sources of these natural food products. Several chemometric data-analysis methods, including pattern recognition algorithms, principal component analysis (PCA), and support vector machine (SVM) were utilized and compared. The classification accuracy of essential oils using PCA, LDA and QDA, and SVM methods was at or near 100%. The MAU-9 e-nose effectively distinguished between different purified essential oil aromas from herbal and fruit plant sources, based on unique e-nose sensor array responses to distinct, essential-oil specific mixtures of volatile organic compounds (VOCs).



##### Design of handheld electronic nose bionic chambers for Chinese liquors recognition

The existing electronic nose (e-nose) chamber has problems in design, such as large volume, unreasonable structure and so on, so it cannot be well used in handheld e-nose systems. Inspired by the structural characteristics of mammalian nasal cavity, seven design schemes of handheld e-nose bionic chamber for liquor recognition were proposed in this paper. Firstly, through fluid dynamics simulation, the effects of chamber shape and internal structure on airflow uniformity, flow velocity, air pressure and residual gas were compared comprehensively. On this basis, the bionic chamber with the best comprehensive performance was selected. Then, the selected bionic chamber and the ordinary square gas chamber were installed in the self-made handheld e-nose system and used in the identification experiments of six liquors. The results show that the selected bionic chamber has higher recognition rate.



##### DWTLSTM for electronic nose signal processing in beef quality monitoring

The smart packaging system is needed to continuously monitor the quality of beef and microbial population for both the meat industries as well as end consumers. Moreover, several feasibility studies of electronic nose (e-nose) for rapid beef quality assessment are also conducted in recent years. The characteristics of e-nose are fast, cheap, and easy to use make it suitable and scalable for beef quality monitoring applications. It is also potential to be integrated with consumer electronics such as refrigerator and meat chiller. However, the inevitable challenge is how to handle time-series data that is contaminated with noise. In this paper, discrete wavelet transform and long short-term memory (DWTLSTM) is proposed to overcome the e-nose signal contaminated with noise in monitoring beef quality. In beef quality classification task, our proposed has a favorable performance with 94.83% of average accuracy and 85.05% of average F-measure. Moreover, it presents a satisfactory performance in the prediction of microbial population (RMSE = 0.0515 and R2 = 0.9712). These results indicate that the DWTLSTM outperforms conventional methods such as k-nearest neighbor (k-NN), linear discriminant analysis (LDA), support vector machine/support vector regression (SVM/SVR), multilayer perceptron (MLP), and even standard long-short term memory (LSTM).



##### Drift Compensation on Massive Online Electronic-Nose Responses

Gas sensor drift is an important issue of electronic nose (E-nose) systems. This study follows this concern under the condition that requires an instant drift compensation with massive online E-nose responses. Recently, an active learning paradigm has been introduced to such condition. However, it does not consider the “noisy label” problem caused by the unreliability of its labeling process in real applications. Thus, we have proposed a class-label appraisal methodology and associated active learning framework to assess and correct the noisy labels. To evaluate the performance of the proposed methodologies, we used the datasets from two E-nose systems. The experimental results show that the proposed methodology helps the E-noses achieve higher accuracy with lower computation than the reference methods do. Finally, we can conclude that the proposed class-label appraisal mechanism is an effective means of enhancing the robustness of active learning-based E-nose drift compensation.





##### An active method of online drift-calibration-sample formation for an electronic nose

Gas-sensor drift is an important issue fading the gas identification performance of an Electronic Nose (E-nose). The most popular drift countermeasure is mathematical-model updating by periodic drift calibrations. Accordingly, drift-calibration-sample formation becomes a challenging issue in online detection because of rare opportunity for collecting drift-calibration samples. However, the class-imbalance problem may occur during such formation. Thus, we proposed an active drift-calibration-sample selection method including a new metric “classifier state” and an associated sample-evaluating procedure. To assess the proposed method, two benchmarks have been adopted. One is a public dataset while the other one is collected from our own E-nose system. Experimental results have demonstrated the superiority of the proposed method in several drift scenarios. Further, we visually explored the behind reason of the proposed method’s high performance. Additionally, a parameter sensitivity analysis was conducted. We conclude that the proposed methodology reduces the negative effect of class-imbalance problem successfully.



##### Advances in gas sensors and electronic nose technologies for agricultural cycle applications

Agricultural cycle is the annual cycle of activities for planting and harvesting. The global warming and climate change currently cause serious impacts on the agricultural cycle leading to reduced crop quantity and quality. In the past decade, the gas sensors and electronic nose (E-nose) technologies have shown great promise and utility in monitoring and prediction of important parameters related to the growth and harvest of a crop. This review summarizes overall the evolution of utilizing gas sensors and E-nose technologies for guideline of agricultural best management practices including applications on cultivation preparation, crop production, harvesting and storage of crops. Advantages and limitations of these technologies in agricultural applications are reviewed to highlight potential research directions.



##### A Review on Electronic Nose: Coherent Taxonomy, Classification, Motivations, Challenges, Recommendations and Datasets

Context: Quality Control (QC) has been constantly an essential concern in many fields like food industry production, medical drugs, environmental protection, and so on. An odor or flavor, as a global fingerprint, can be implemented as a non-invasive mechanism for quality assurance. This computer-based approach can assure accurate detection and precise identification of the product quality or manufactured goods. Objective: This paper aims to achieve a systematic review about e-nose by introducing the achievements made by researchers in this area, to summarize their findings, to provide motivations and challenges to new researchers in the field of e-nose. Methods: The articles that were being utilized in the e-nose field were systematically achieved using three search engines: The online library of IEEE Explore, Web of Science and Science Direct for time span of 7 years (from 2013 to 2020). Both medical literature reviews and technical reviews were considered in the criteria of the research for wider understanding in the field of e-nose. The articles were categorized according to the objective of the research and projected into four classes. Upon completion of screening process 333 research papers using the exclusion and inclusion conditions, as the final set 54 articles were selected. Results: The taxonomy of this research was classified into four categories. The first one included the suggested methods that introduced the utilization of the e-nose for classification purposes (9/54 papers). The second category comprises the methods related to the development of e-nose (24/54 papers). The third one included the review studies about the e-nose (8/54 papers). The fourth group comprises comparative studies and evaluation (13/54 papers). Discussion: This systematic review contributes for a clearer understanding and a full insight in the e- nose research field by surveying and categorizing pertinent research efforts. Conclusion: This review paper will help to address the up-to-date research opportunities, challenges, problems, motivations and recommendations related to the utilization of e-nose in all fields of sciences and industries.

##### Discriminative detection of volatile organic compounds using an electronic nose based on TiO2 hybrid nanostructures

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are environmental pollutants that pose risks to the human health even at very low concentrations. Therefore, fast and sensitive analytical methods capable to discriminate VOCs are highly demanded. Herein, we have successfully synthetized and characterized TiO2 nanofibers (NF) by electrospinning and TiO2 nanoparticles (NP) by sol-gel method to be employed in an electronic nose (e-nose) for monitoring VOCs. Electrical comparison between TiO2-NF and TiO2-NP indicated that the former presented better electrical response, which can be attributed to the better charge transfer along the nanofiber framework. The TiO2 nanostructures were combined with three different polymers, namely poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):polystyrene sulfonate (PEDOT:PSS), polypyrrole (PPy), and polystyrene sulfonate (PSS), which obtained nanocomposites were deposit by drop casting onto gold interdigitated electrodes and used as sensing units of the e-nose. Electrical impedance spectroscopy measurements were employed to collect the e-nose electrical resistance data, which were treated by Principal Component Analysis (PCA), revealing the system was able to discriminate the three VOCs. Our results indicate that the e-nose system has potential to be employed as a rapid and simple alternative in the detection of VOCs.





##### Determination of the quality of tea from different picking periods: An adaptive pooling attention mechanism coupled with an electronic nose

An efficient nondestructive testing method is important to inspect the quality of agricultural products. The material content of tea differs across different picking periods, leading to variation in the quality. Traditional methods for evaluating the quality of tea are relatively complex, in-efficient, and generally destructive. This prompted our work, which led to the development of nondestructive testing technology comprising an electronic nose (e-nose) combined with an effective data analysis method, to determine the quality of tea from different picking periods. First, the e-nose system was used to acquire information about the volatile components of tea from different picking periods. Second, an adaptive pooling attention mechanism (APAM) is proposed based on the data characteristics of the e-nose system. By adapting the attention to the essential information that affects the classification performance, the feature-learning ability of the gas information is enhanced. Finally, the proposed APAM was combined with a classic convolutional neural network (CNN) to identify the gas information of tea picked during different picking periods. The method was evaluated in comparison with other gas recognition methods to prove its effectiveness. The results show that APAM can effectively realize the adaptive attention to the deep gas information. The MobileNetV1 +APAM has accuracy of 97.62%, precision of 97.57%, recall of 97.71%, and F1-score of 97.64%, confirming the capability of the method to successfully distinguish among the gas information of tea gathered in different picking periods. In summary, integrating APAM with a classic CNN combined with e-nose technology offers an effective nondestructive testing method for agricultural production and tea quality evaluation.



##### Performance Analysis of MAU-9 Electronic-Nose MOS Sensor Array Components and ANN Classification Methods for Discrimination of Herb and Fruit Essential Oils

The recent development of MAU-9 electronic sensory methods, based on artificial olfaction detection of volatile emissions using an experimental metal oxide semiconductor (MOS)-type electronic-nose (e-nose) device, have provided novel means for the effective discovery of adulterated and counterfeit essential oil-based plant products sold in worldwide commercial markets. These new methods have the potential of facilitating enforcement of regulatory quality assurance (QA) for authentication of plant product genuineness and quality through rapid evaluation by volatile (aroma) emissions. The MAU-9 e-nose system was further evaluated using performance-analysis methods to determine ways for improving on overall system operation and effectiveness in discriminating and classifying volatile essential oils derived from fruit and herbal edible plants. Individual MOS-sensor components in the e-nose sensor array were performance tested for their effectiveness in contributing to discriminations of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) analyzed in headspace from purified essential oils using artificial neural network (ANN) classification. Two additional statistical data-analysis methods, including principal regression (PR) and partial least squares (PLS), were also compared. All statistical methods tested effectively classified essential oils with high accuracy. Aroma classification with PLS method using 2 optimal MOS sensors yielded much higher accuracy than using all nine sensors. The accuracy of 2-group and 6-group classifications of essentials oils by ANN was 100% and 98.9%, respectively.
